---
cover: assets/images/2019-12-24-phd-app.png
title: "My PhD application materials"
date: 2019-12-27
permalink: 2019-12-27-phd-app
tags: resources
layout: post
current: post
class: post-template
navigation: true
---

A friend is applying to PhD programs and asked me for my application materials; I thought it would be helpful to share them here in case anyone else in the world is interested.

If you're going to use these, please note that I don't remember if this is exactly the final version, and that formatting requirements are different at every program.
More generally, I make no promises and you should use these materials *at your own risk*.

That said, I do think that the general formula is a good one.
A good personal statement should answer three key questions:

* Why are you interested in this general field?
* Why are you interested in this particular program?
* How do you know that you will be successful if admitted?

Ideally, you should try to put these in something of a narrative format that flows and describes the evolution of your interests and skills.
However, remember that your essay will be read by people who are tired and over-worked, so don't try to be too subtle -- there's nothing wrong with some summary sentences or paragraphs that emphasize that you've thought about the answer to these three questions.
If you're interested in doing a PhD in my rough area of research (civil and environmental engineering, water systems, hydroclimate, climate adaptation, etc) I'd be happy to discuss further.

Finally, shout out to [Humberto Jaramillo](https://elimelechlab.yale.edu/people/humberto-jaramillo){:target="_blank"}, who was a first-year graduate student at Yale who helped me write this essay.
He, in turn, got help from others -- pass it on!

> **View document [here]({{ site.baseurl }}assets/pdf/2019-12-24-phd-app.pdf){:target="_blank"}**