---
title: "Funded Positions for Ph.D. Students"
subtitle: "Want to tackle fundamental challenges in climate risk and adaptive infrastructure?"
category: Openings
layout: post
tags: news
---

Prospective PhD students are invited to apply to my group in Rice Civil and Environmental Engineering, where I'm starting in January.

Our core research theme is developing infrastructure management strategies that integrate nonstructural instruments (including insurance, nature-based solutions, early warning systems, and household-scale adaptation) into existing infrastructure to improve near-term system performance while simultaneously increasing capacity to flexibly manage deeply uncertain long-term changes.
Through generative environmental modeling, uncertainty quantification/characterization, and optimization as well as deep collaboration with academic and community partners, we're looking for effective and applicable strategies.

Strong candidates have strong quantitative and critical thinking skills, are curious to explore new ideas, perspectives, and methods, and can clearly articulate their research goals.
Funding is not tied to a particular project but applicants should articulate some specific research questions that align with our [mission-oriented basic research](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pasteur%27s_quadrant){:target="_blank"} and the broad themes described above.

### Minimum qualifications

* Commitment to our [mission and values]({{ site.labguide }}){:target="_blank"}
* Coursework in calculus and statistics
* Interest in flood risk management, urban water systems, coastal resilience, renewable energy, or a related application
* [Perseverance, tenacity, and cogency](http://matt.might.net/articles/successful-phd-students/)
* Strong quantitative skills

### Preferred qualifications

<div class="panel panel-default">
    <div class="panel-heading"><strong>Remember</strong></div>
    <div class="panel-body">
        No applicant is expected to have <strong>all</strong> of these characteristics.
        Ph.D. students are just that -- students -- and we will teach you what you need to know.
        If you're not sure whether you're a good fit, <a href="/contact">reach out!</a>.
    </div>
</div>

* Ability to code in at least one programming language (Julia or Python preferred)
* Coursework in any of: Bayesian modeling, machine learning, water systems analysis, electricity systems, hydrology, climate dynamics, reinforcement learning, optimization, software engineering, economics, or similar
* Strong written and verbal communication skills
* Firsthand experience collaborating with stakeholders to design, build, or critique infrastructure systems

### Why Rice CEE

There are many fantastic graduate programs for smart and motivated students!
All of them will expose you to brilliant faculty, professional development opportunities, and rigorous courses.
However, please permit a brief sales pitch:

* Houston is [a great place to live](https://engineering.rice.edu/about/living-houston). Compared to other large cities in the US, Houston is relatively affordable and offers a high standard of living. Houston is also sunny, diverse, and host to a great international food scene. Rice's campus is stunningly beautiful.
* Campus culture at Rice in general, and in CEE in particular, is friendly and collaborative.
* The region is a living urban laboratory for issues including flooding, drought, urban water systems, and renewable energy.
(_As detailed in our [lab guide]({{ site.labguide }}){:target="_blank"} it is important to approach case studies with humility and deep respect for our partners_).

### How to apply

You must apply to the program of your choice in the [Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering](https://cee.rice.edu/graduate-program/).
**Please see [this page](/join-the-lab) for additional instructions and some helpful resources.**
You may want to:

1. send an [email](/contact) with your current CV, a statement of your personal and research interests, and any relevant experience before submitting your departmental application
1. request information from [Rice Graduate and Postdoctoral Studies](https://graduate.rice.edu/request-information)
1. examine the admissions requirements on the Rice CEE [website](https://cee.rice.edu/academics/graduate-programs/graduate-admissions)

<div class="panel panel-default">
    <div class="panel-heading"><strong><em>N.B.</em></strong></div>
    <div class="panel-body">
        Rice University has <a href="https://news.rice.edu/2020/09/08/rice-goes-gre-optional-for-grad-programs-will-grant-fee-waivers-to-graduates-of-texas-schools/">announced</a> that the GRE will not be required for this admissions cycle.
    </div>
</div>
